DOCS-7350-HTTP-Post-form-update-kt (#739)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/http/http-post-form-task.adoc

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> The following example shows an HTTP request by posting a form. Learn how to perform this operation by creating a Mule app using Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) listener operation, both in Studio and XML. Additionally, review how to send the HTTP request that contains form parameters using an API client tool such as Postman, or the Curl command utility.

Reviewer: Does the example show "how you can create an HTTP request by posting a form"?

Reviewer: "Learn how to perform this operation by creating a...listener operation?" This sentence is a bit confusing, with the two uses of "operation."
Do we mean that you learn how to make a request or post a form (or make a request by posting a form) by creating an app by using a listener (Listener?) operation?
And how to send (the subsequent?) request that contains form parameters?

Reviewer: I tried to take a stab at rewording this, but I got lost in what the goal is and how you reach it.
Is the goal to create an HTTP request by posting a form, and then send that request (which has form parameters?)
Does "posting" the form actually send the request?
Is the user creating three things: the HTTP request, the form, and the Mule app? 
Creates the Mule app using the connector, and the Mule app posts the form that creates the HTTP request?
Then the user can send the created HTTP request, which contains form parameters (?), by using a client tool?
To what purpose is the user creating and sending the request? Why does this request require a form or form parameters?

Reviewer: Ignoring all these questions, which maybe your audience will not have, here is a simple copyedit:
```suggestion
The following example shows an HTTP request by posting a form. The example shows you how to perform this operation [posting or requesting?] in both Anypoint Studio and XML, by creating a Mule app using Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) Listener operation. The example also illustrates how to send the resulting HTTP request, which contains form parameters, by using either an API client tool such as Postman or the `curl` command-line utility.
```

> == Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create an HTTP Request by Posting a Form Using Studio
```
...if that is the task: creating by posting

Reviewer: In any case, as a task topic, this title should use an imperative verb: what the user is doing here.

> . In Studio, create a Mule project.

Reviewer: Mule project or Mule app, as worded above?

> . To create a new flow, add an HTTP Listener Connector into the canvas, set *Path* to `submitform`.

Reviewer: HTTP Listener Connector? The text above calls this "HTTP Connector Listener operation". What is the actual name for the connector in this example? 
Check the intro text against the steps to ensure that they agree and that the intro sets the stage for what the task actually does to help the audience achieve a specific goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To create a new flow, add an [[HTTP Listener Connector]] to the canvas and set *Path* to `submitform`.
```
Should we provide a screen capture?

> . Go to the *Global Elements* tab, and click *Create*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Global Elements* tab, click *Create*.
```
If the user has to navigate from the previous step to the tab, use that term: "Navigate to the ...."

> . In the *Choose Global Type* filter box, search and select HTTP Listener config. Then click *OK*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Choose Global Type* filter box, search for and select the HTTP Listener configuration and click *OK*.
```
If the configuration has a label, use the exact wording here and enclose it in * *: "..., search for and select *<label> and click *OK*.

> . Set *Host* to `localhost` and *Port* as the default value of `8081`. Then click *OK*.

Reviewer: Does the user have to set to the default value or leave the default value unchanged? verify that it has the default value and change it if not 8081?
Because a step should be one sentence max., GLOBALLY incorporate clicking *OK* into that sentence:
```suggestion
. Set *Host* to `localhost` and *Port* as the default value of `8081`, and then click *OK*.
```

> . Return to the Message flow and after the HTTP Connector, add a Choice router.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Return to the message flow and, after the HTTP Connector, add a Choice router.
```
Illustrate?

> . On the first choice of the router, add a Set Payload element. Set its value field to the following expression:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the first choice of the router, add a Set Payload element with the following value:
```

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
Sorry #[payload.'firstname'], you're too young to register.
----

+

> Note that this expression refers to one of the form parameters included in the request: `firstname`. After the connector receives the parameter, it exists in the Mule Message payload as an item in a map.

Reviewer: Illustrate?

Reviewer: ...the Mule message payload...
OR
...the *Mule Message* payload...
OR
..."the Mule *Message* payload...?
Follow UI labeling.

> . On the Choice router, configure the *When* condition for that path to be the following expression:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the Choice router, configure the *When* condition for that path as follows:
```
"for that path" clear to audience?

+
Once again, this expression refers to one of the incoming form parameters, `yearborn`.

> . Complete the flow by adding another Set Payload element in the *Default* path of the Choice router. Set its value field to:

Reviewer: ditto one sentence:
```suggestion
. Complete the flow by adding another Set Payload element in the *Default* path of the Choice router, with a payload value of:
```

+

[source,text,linenums]
----
Registration has been carried out successfully! Welcome #[payload.'firstname'] #[payload.'lastname']!
----

.Post Form Flow.
image::http/http-example-post-form-flow.png[HTTP Post form flow]

== XML Editor

> 

Reviewer: ditto re. making the title include the task action; make parallel to the peer topic above

Reviewer: Is there no text intro following the heading and before the first step?

> . Create an `<http:listener>` global configuration, set *host* to `localhost` and *port* to `8081`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an `<http:listener>` global configuration and set *host* to `localhost` and *port* to `8081`.
```
Should we have used this wording earlier: "an `<http:listener>` global configuration"

> . Create a flow with an `<http:listener>` connector. Reference your connector to the global element you just created, set *path* to `submitform`.

Reviewer: One sentence? Or two steps?
```suggestion
. Create a flow with an `<http:listener>` connector, reference your connector to the global element you just created, and set *path* to `submitform`.
```

    </flow>
----

> . After the HTTP Connector, add a `choice` router with two alternative paths. Set the first path to execute when the following MEL expression is true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the flow, after the HTTP Connector add a `choice` router with two alternative paths, in which the first path executes when the following MEL expression is true:
```
Should we change earlier references to Choice router to "`choice` router"?
Also, is the expression literally `true` or does is just have the condition of being true?

Reviewer: If you go on to document the second alternative, then I suggest substeps:
```suggestion
. After the HTTP Connector, add a `choice` router with two alternative paths:
.. Set the first path to execute when the following MEL expression is true:
```

        </choice>
----

> . Add a `set-payload` element on each alternative path, one to return a rejection notice and the other to return a success message. In both 'set-payload' elements, refer to the fields of the incoming form parameters to construct the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add a `set-payload` element on each alternative path, one to return a rejection notice and the other to return a success message. 
+
+ In both 'set-payload' elements, refer to the fields of the incoming form parameters to construct the message.
```

----

> == Post Form by Sending HTTP Requests

Reviewer: Be sure that this...task? (no steps?) is titled so that it clearly relates to the second part of the topic set intro, using the same words and word order (as with the two "create" tasks).

> To send an HTTP request that contains form parameters, you can use an API client tool such as https://www.postman.com/product/api-client[Postman], or the http://curl.haxx.se/[curl] command line utility.  If you use Postman, make sure you send the form parameters with content-type `x-www-form-urlencoded`.

Reviewer: So...are we sending a request that contains form parameters OR posting a form by sending a request?
Clarify; use the same words and word order throughout to avoid confusion.

> The following XML example expects to receive a POST request from http://localhost:8081/submitform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following XML example expects to receive a POST request from http://localhost:8081/submitform:
```

// if you copy/paste the doc in the XML editor, change the left angle bracket to &lt;

> The post body contains the following form parameters: `firstname`, `lastname`, `yearborn`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The post body contains the following form parameters: `firstname`, `lastname`, and `yearborn`:
```

firstname=Aaron&lastname=Aguilar+Acevedo&yearborn=1999
----

> When the HTTP Listener connector receives the request, it creates a Mule Message that contains a map type payload with the following key-value pairs:

Reviewer: I am confused by "HTTP Listener connector": are we referring to HTTP Connector or some generic connector for HTTP Listener? I was confused by this earlier as well.

Reviewer: Mule Message > Mule message, unless we are quoting the UI (Mule *Message* or *Mule Message*).

Reviewer: "a map type payload" or a Map type payload (didn't we init. cap. types earlier?)

`firstname: Aaron` +
`lastname: Aguilar Acevedo` +
`yearborn: 1999`

> Note that in the case of the `lastname` parameter, while the value is encoded on the HTTP request (`Aguilar+Acevedo)`, the connector automatically decodes the value for you when placing it in the Mule Message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in the case of the `lastname` parameter, while the value is encoded in the HTTP request (`Aguilar+Acevedo)`, the connector automatically decodes the value for you when placing it in the Mule Message.
```
ditto re. "message"; GLOBAL search and confirm

On any of the remaining blocks on the flow, you can easily access the value of the elements in the Map payload by using MEL expressions to refer to their corresponding keys.

> In the previous example, the value matching the `yearborn` key is obtained via the expression `#[payload.'yearborn']`. Depending on its value, one of two different paths is followed:

Reviewer: Both of these sentences are passive; is that intentional?

Reviewer: "Depending on the value of this expression, one...."
